.TH MEERKAT.ENV 5 "2025-12-27" "Meerkat DSA" "File Formats"

Meerkat DSA is configured via environment variables. Environment variables that
are specific to Meerkat DSA are namespaced such that they all start with
\fBMEERKAT_\fR.

Note that this documentation is not the same as the Meerkat DSA documentation
online. In general, this man page is a little more sparse on detail and targeted
towards system administrators.

.SH REPRESENTATION OF VALUES

Meerkat DSA environment variables that represent boolean types will use
1 to represent TRUE and 0 to represent FALSE. This is because digits
are more locale-independent. Most cultures would recognize 1 to mean
TRUE and 0 to mean FALSE. In general, where boolean environment variables
are used, anything other than 1 simply gets interpreted as FALSE.

Meerkat DSA environment variables that represent object identifiers only accept
the dot-delimited, numeric representation of the object identifier, such as
2.5.4.3; human-friendly names for these object identifiers are not supported
by Meerkat DSA (e.g. "id-at-commonName").

Meerkat DSA does not validate environment variable values. If you supply
invalid values, you will get unspecified behavior.

.SH UPDATING CONFIGURATION

Meerkat DSA reads the environment variables one time: at start up. This means
that, if you want to re-configure your Meerkat DSA instance, you will have to
restart Meerkat DSA--you cannot simply modify the environment variables as it
runs.

.SH TLS AND SIGNING OPTIONS

You will notice a few options that _seem_ similar: in Meerkat DSA, TLS options
and signing options (those pertaining to signed arguments, results, or errors)
both have a suite of similar configuration options. The TLS options start with
\fBMEERKAT_TLS\fR and the signing options start with \fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_\fR.

The TLS options do not affect the signing options, and vice versa. That means
that, if you want to configure, say, a certificate authorities file for
verifying both TLS peers and the signatures on signed arguments, results, and
errors, you will have to set both the \fBMEERKAT_TLS_CA_FILE\fR and
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_CA_FILE\fR environment variables to the same value.

This makes Meerkat really flexible, but it also means that you can inadvertently
leave certain security-related settings to their default values, which might not
be what you intend!

To further complicate this, there is another set of similar options for signed
arguments, results, and errors that only pertains to bind operations. These
options start with \fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_BIND_\fR. These environment variables
override the values of their equivalent \fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_\fR environment
variables, hence they are referred to as the "bind overrides."

.SH CONFIGURATION OPTIONS

Here are the configuration options for Meerkat DSA.

.TP
.B DATABASE_URL

A database URL indicating the SQLite database to which Meerkat DSA must
connect for persistent storage. Meerkat DSA assumes full read-write access to
this database (not the DBMS, just the database). On a typical install on a
Unix-like system, this will be
.I /var/lib/meerkat/meerkat.db
\&.

.TP
.B LANG

This is a standard environment variable on Unix-like systems. In Meerkat DSA,
this environment variable determines the locale used for log and error
messages.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ADMINISTRATOR_EMAIL

The email that you specify here will be submitted along with telemetry events.
This will help Meerkat network administrators reach out to you to offer support,
inform you of security vulnerabilities or active attacks, or contact you for
other Meerkat DSA-related things.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ADMINISTRATOR_EMAIL_PUBLIC

If set to 1, the administrator email configured by
\fBMEERKAT_ADMINISTRATOR_EMAIL\fR will be exposed in
the root DSE as a value of the
.I administratorsAddress
attribute.

This can be handy for allowing people and organizations to reach out to you or
your organization regarding your DSA, such as for GDPR data deletion requests,
DMCA takedown notices, or to inform you of security vulnerabilities. On the
other hand, exposing your email address could expose you to phishing, spam, or
other security issues attendant to an exposed email address.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ATTR_CERT_CHAIN_FILE

The filepath of the chain of attribute certificates and
public key certificates path to use for
outbound strong authentication (when your Meerkat DSA instance binds to
another DSA). The attribute certificate path supplied here will populate the
.I attributeCertificationPath
field of the strong credentials. Meerkat DSA does
not currently use this in any way other than that.

This file MUST contain only attribute certificates and public key certificates,
which MUST have the PEM labels "ATTRIBUTE CERTIFICATE" and "CERTIFICATE",
respectively. The first and last PEM-encoded objects MUST be attribute
certificates, not public key certificates. Any public key certificate is
associated with the attribute certificate that follows it. There MUST NOT be
multiple public key certificates adjacent to each other, but there MAY be two or
more attribute certificates adjacent to each other.

Using "A" to represent an attribute certificate and "P" to represent a public
key certificate, the following sequences are valid: "AAA", "APAPA", "APAA". The
following sequences are _invalid_: "PAA", "AAP", "APPA", "APAPPA".

The certs should be ordered by ascending authority: in other words, the Start Of
Authority (SOA) attribute certificate should be closest to the _bottom_ of the
file and the end-entity attribute certificate (used directly by Meerkat DSA)
should be closest to the _top_ of the file.

The file contents should look like this if you open them up in a text editor:

.RS
.nf
-----BEGIN ATTRIBUTE CERTIFICATE-----
<Some base64-encoded data starting with "MII">
-----END ATTRIBUTE CERTIFICATE-----
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
<Some base64-encoded data starting with "MII">
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
-----BEGIN ATTRIBUTE CERTIFICATE-----
<Some base64-encoded data starting with "MII">
-----END ATTRIBUTE CERTIFICATE-----
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
<Some base64-encoded data starting with "MII">
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
-----BEGIN ATTRIBUTE CERTIFICATE-----
<Some base64-encoded data starting with "MII">
-----END ATTRIBUTE CERTIFICATE-----
.fi
.RE

This does not affect the production of signed arguments, results, or errors, nor
does it affect TLS.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ATTR_CERT_DURATION

An integer indicating the number of seconds that an attribute certificate
produced via the Attribute Certificate Request extension
will last. In other words, the
.I notBeforeTime
of the produced attribute certificate will be set to the current time, and the
.I notAfterTime
will be set to the current time, plus the number of seconds indicated by this
configuration value.

If set to 0 or any non-positive integer value, this feature will be disabled.
This defaults to 3600, meaning that attribute certificates will be valid for
one hour by default.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_BIND_MIN_SLEEP_MS

This is the amount of time in milliseconds (at minimum) that Meerkat DSA will
take to respond to a failed authentication attempt. This exists to stifle timing
attacks.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_BIND_SLEEP_RANGE_MS

This is the maximum amount of time in milliseconds that Meerkat DSA will
add to the time taken to respond to a failed authentication attempt on top of
the minimum as configured by the \fBMEERKAT_BIND_MIN_SLEEP_MS\fR environment
variable. The additional time taken in milliseconds is selected uniformly and
at random from 0 to this number. This exists to stifle timing attacks.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_BULK_INSERT_MODE

If set to 1, this enables bulk-insert mode, where all access control checks
are disabled, some schema checks are disabled, and other validation is
disabled. This exists to speed up a bulk insertion of data when a directory is
still being set up.

In some experiments, this has made
.I addEntry
operations run four times faster!

Enabling this disables access controls. This should NOT be enabled if your
directory is accessible over a network to users that should not have
unrestricted access.

This SHOULD be turned off and Meerkat DSA SHOULD be restarted as soon as the
initial bulk loading is complete.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_CLIENT_CERT_ENGINE

This is an open-ended string that specifies the client certificate engine that
OpenSSL can use to obtain a client certificate.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_CLEARANCE_AUTHORITIES

The filepath of a Trust Anchor List file. See
IETF RFC 5914. This file
contains the trust anchors whose signed attribute certificates will be seen as
valid by Meerkat DSA, and whose clearances (values of the
.I clearance
attribute) will be associated with bound users that supply such attribute
certificates in their strong authentication parameters.

The trust anchor list shall be encapsulated in a Cryptographic Message Syntax
(CMS) message. It does not need to be the top-level object, however. It can be
nested within authenticated data, signed data, or digested data objects, as
defined in IETF RFC 5652.

This file may also be PEM-encoded. The PEM label must be "TRUST ANCHOR LIST",
such that the file looks like this when opened in a text editor:

.RS
.nf
-----BEGIN TRUST ANCHOR LIST-----
<Some base64-encoded data>
-----END TRUST ANCHOR LIST-----
.fi
.RE

.TP
.B MEERKAT_CHAINING_CHECK_SIG

If not set to 0, Meerkat DSA will verify the digital signatures on received
signed DSP results and errors. It is better security for this to remain enabled,
but one good reason to disable it is that DAP users might not care about the
point-to-point security provided by DSP signing, so long as the chained DAP
results are digitally signed and verifiable; for these users, this more
stringent security could mean that their DAP requests simply fail in chaining.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_CHAINING_SIGN_REQUESTS

If not set to 0, Meerkat DSA will digitally sign DSP arguments, results, and
errors.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_CHAINING_TLS_OPTIONAL

If set to 1, this permits the non-usage of TLS in chaining to other DSAs. In
other words, if this is set to 1, this DSA will still chain operations to
other DSAs after attempting to use StartTLS, regardless of whether StartTLS
succeeds.

If this is enabled, transported operations, data, errors, responses,
credentials, etc. are susceptible to inspection by intermediaries, which is a
security problem. These operations may not be susceptible to tampering (other
than by omission) if cryptographic signing is used.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_DEFAULT_ENTRY_TTL

The default value of the
.I entryTtl
operational attribute, if an entry
was marked as a dynamic object using the
.I dynamicObject
object class, but the
.I entryTtl
attribute was not supplied in the attributes of the
created entry. This value is a non-negative number of seconds before the entry
should expire and disappear. See IETF RFC 2589.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ECDH_CURVES

A colon-separated list of ECDH curves to use in ECDH key agreement. Each curve
can be an NID or name.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ENABLE_DAP

If set to 0, this disables Directory Access Protocol (DAP).

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ENABLE_DISP

If set to 1, this enables Directory Information Shadowing Protocol (DISP).

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ENABLE_DOP

If set to 1, this enables Directory Operational Binding Management Protocol
(DOP).

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ENABLE_DSP

If set to 1, this enables Directory System Protocol (DSP).

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ENTRIES_PER_SUBORDINATES_PAGE

The number of entries that Meerkat DSA will load into memory at a time when
searching for a subordinate.

Meerkat DSA searches in order of descending IDs of entries, with the theory
being that larger IDs are entries that have been recently added, and recently
added entries are more likely to be requested than older entries. That said,
this can generally be set to a fairly low number for optimal results.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_FETCH_REMOTE_AUTHZ_ATTRS

By default, when performing the remote password checking procedure (meaning
authenticating a user whose password lies in another DSA), Meerkat DSA will
also subsequently query that DSA for the clearance and uniqueIdentifier
attributes, which will help with determining the authorizations of the user.
In the future, this read may include more attributes.

If this variable is set to 0, Meerkat DSA will not perform this second read.
There is little reason to do this except for performance concerns (since this
can slow down log-ins that use passwords in another DSA) or network congestion
concerns.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_FORBID_ANONYMOUS_BIND

If set to 1, anonymous binds are declined entirely.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_GET_CLEARANCES_FROM_ATTR_CERTS

If not set to 0, Meerkat DSA will associate clearances with a bound user based
on the values of the
.I clearance
attribute that are present in the presented
attribute certificates of the strong authentication argument, provided, of
course, that the attribute certificates are valid.

:::note

Meerkat DSA only supports directly-issued attribute certificates: it cannot
currently validate indirectly issued attribute certificates / delegation paths.
If a user supplies an attribute certification path that has an
.I acPath
parameter, Meerkat DSA will not attempt to validate the attribute certification
path. Authentication may still succeed, but any clearances granted to the user
via that path will not be applied.

This feature will be supported in some future release.

:::

.TP
.B MEERKAT_GET_CLEARANCES_FROM_DSAIT

If not set to 0, Meerkat DSA will associate clearances with a bound user based
on the values of the
.I clearance
attribute it has for the bound entry
in its local DSAIT.

Unfortunately,
.I clearance
is technically defined as a user attribute, even
though the directory uses it for making access control decisions. This means
that, if you define an access control rule that, for instance, allows a user
to edit
.I allUserAttributes
, they will be able to modify the
.I clearance
attribute. As such, it is important to have access control rules that explicitly
forbid editing
.I clearance
attribute values.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_GET_CLEARANCES_FROM_PKC

If not set to 0, Meerkat DSA will associate clearances with a bound user based
on the values of the
.I clearance
attribute that are present in the presented
.I subjectDirectoryAttributes
extension of the public key certificate of the
strong authentication argument, provided, of course, that the public key
certification path is valid.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_HONOR_CIPHER_ORDER

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will attempt to use its own preferred TLS cipher
suites instead of the client's.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_IDM_BUFFER_SIZE

The number of bytes in size of the IDM buffer. This innately limits the size
of an IDM frame. This should be large enough to accomodate all well-intentioned
requests and responses, but small enough to prohibit nefariously large requests
that are intended to exhaust Meerkat DSA's memory.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_IDM_PORT

If set, this names a TCP port on which Meerkat DSA listens locally for IDM
traffic.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_IDMS_PORT

If set, this names a TCP port on which Meerkat DSA listens locally for IDMS
(IDM over TLS) traffic.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_INIT_JS

If set, this is the filepath to an init script. At startup, Meerkat DSA will
load this script and execute the default export or an export named "init", if
either one exists.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ITOT_ABORT_TIMEOUT_IN_SECONDS

The timeout after which the OSI session layer will automatically abort the
session connection in an ISO Transport Over TCP (ITOT) connection after not
receiving a response from the session peer.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ITOT_ACSE_PASSWORD

Currently unused. Reserved for future support for ACSE-level authentication.
This is a fixed password that Meerkat DSA will require from ACSE initiators to
establish an ACSE association.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ITOT_CHAINING

By default, Meerkat DSA will chain requests to other DSAs that operate over
ISO Transport Over TCP (ITOT). This can pose some security risks, due to the
complexity of the OSI networking protocols. To disable ITOT chaining, set this
environment variable to 0.

This may be desirable, since ITOT does _not_ provide point-to-point encryption
and authentication like TLS. You may need to run ITOT traffic over a VPN or a
TLS or SSH tunnel.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ITOT_MAX_NSDU_SIZE

The largest Network Service Data Unit (NSDU) that an ISO Transport Over TCP
(ITOT) can buffer before being aborted or disconnected. In ISO Transport Over
TCP (ITOT), this means the maximum size of TPKT packets, which are innately
limited to 65531 bytes.

If this value is set too low, clients will not be able to send data to the
configured DSA, or they will take an extremely long time to transmit. If this
value is set too high, malicious clients will be able to send large payloads
that exhaust memory and/or compute on the DSA.

This option should almost always be left alone, since TPKTs are innately limited
to 65531 bytes in size.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ITOT_MAX_TPDU_SIZE

The largest Transport Protocol Data Unit (TPDU) that an ISO Transport Over TCP
(ITOT) can transmit before being aborted or disconnected.

If this value is set too low, clients will not be able to send data to the
configured DSA, or they will take an extremely long time to transmit. If this
value is set too high, malicious clients will be able to send large payloads
that exhaust memory and/or compute on the DSA.

This option should almost always be left alone, since the ITU X.224 OSI
transport protocol used by the ITOT stack is limited in size by the maximum NSDU
size, which for ITOT, is 65531 bytes (the size limit of a TPKT).

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ITOT_MAX_TSDU_SIZE

The largest Transport Service Data Unit (TSDU) that an ISO Transport Over TCP
(ITOT) can buffer before being aborted or disconnected. This option defaults to
a sensible value and should generally not be changed unless there is a problem
that warrants it.

If this value is set too low, clients will not be able to send data to the
configured DSA, or they will take an extremely long time to transmit. If this
value is set too high, malicious clients will be able to send large payloads
that exhaust memory and/or compute on the DSA.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ITOT_MAX_SSDU_SIZE

The largest Session Service Data Unit (SSDU) that an ISO Transport Over TCP
(ITOT) can buffer before being aborted or disconnected. This option defaults to
a sensible value and should generally not be changed unless there is a problem
that warrants it.

If this value is set too low, clients will not be able to send data to the
configured DSA, or they will take an extremely long time to transmit. If this
value is set too high, malicious clients will be able to send large payloads
that exhaust memory and/or compute on the DSA.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ITOT_MAX_PRESENTATION_CONTEXTS

The maximum number of presentation contexts Meerkat DSA will tolerate in an
ITU X.226 OSI Presentation association when using ISO Transport Over TCP (ITOT).
This defaults to 10. If more than this many presentation contexts are proposed
by a presentation peer, the presentation association will be refused.

This option exists to prevent denial-of-service attacks in which a large number
of presentation contexts are presented.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ITOT_PORT

The TCP port Meerkat DSA will listen on for ISO Transport Over TCP (ITOT)
traffic, as described in IETF RFC 1006. If this is unset, Meerkat DSA will not
listen for ITOT traffic.

Many legacy X.500 directory clients support ITOT.

ISO Transport Over TCP (ITOT) does **NOT** provide point-to-point encryption or
peer authentication like TLS does. This means that data sent over ITOT will be
sent in clear text, meaning that ISPs, routers, and others will be able to snoop
on your directory traffic. If you expect to send traffic over untrusted
networks, be sure to use VPNs, TLS tunnels, or SSH tunnels to encrypt and
authenticate data transmitted over the network.

Meerkat DSA _does_ support ITOT over TLS via the
\fBMEERKAT_ITOTS_PORT\fR configuration option, but most
legacy clients will not support this.

To add to this, ISO Transport Over TCP (ITOT) is very complicated, because it
entails another much more complicated networking stack operating over TCP/IP.
Because of its gigantic attack surface, it is strongly encouraged that you leave
this disabled unless you have a specific known need to support ITOT clients. IDM
transport should always be preferred.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ITOTS_PORT

The TCP port Meerkat DSA will listen on for ISO Transport Over TCP (ITOT)
traffic, as described in IETF RFC 1006,
but encapsulated within TLS. If this is unset, Meerkat DSA will not listen for
ITOTS traffic.

Many legacy X.500 directory clients support ITOT, but no known legacy clients
support ITOT over TLS.

ISO Transport Over TCP (ITOT) is very complicated, because it
entails another much more complicated networking stack operating over TCP/IP.
Because of its gigantic attack surface, it is strongly encouraged that you leave
this disabled unless you have a specific known need to support ITOT clients. IDM
transport should always be preferred, and IDMS even moreso.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LABELLING_AUTHORITIES

The filepath of the Trust Anchor List file. See
IETF RFC 5914. This file
contains information on the trust anchors to be used for verifying the security
labels on attribute values that are applied using the
.I attributeValueSecurityLabelContext
context. This is used for implementing
Rule-Based Access Control (RBAC). In other words, when the signatures on
security labels on attribute values are checked, these trust anchors provide the
public keys against which these security labels are verified and the names of
the issuers.

The trust anchor list shall be encapsulated in a Cryptographic Message Syntax
(CMS) message. It does not need to be the top-level object, however. It can be
nested within authenticated data, signed data, or digested data objects, as
defined in IETF RFC 5652.

This file may also be PEM-encoded. The PEM label must be "TRUST ANCHOR LIST",
such that the file looks like this when opened in a text editor:

.RS
.nf
-----BEGIN TRUST ANCHOR LIST-----
<Some base64-encoded data>
-----END TRUST ANCHOR LIST-----
.fi
.RE

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LAST_UPDATE_DISPUTE_THRESHOLD

The number of seconds of difference between a shadowing peer's indicated
lastUpdate time and the local DSA's lastUpdate time greater or equal to
which is considered a dispute. At the time of writing, nothing is done other
than that a warning is logged if the lastUpdate time between the correspondent
DSAs is disputed.

If you find that you are seeing error messages related to disputed lastUpdate
times in your logs, but shadowing is working just fine, you can dial up this
number until the issue is gone. Wildly differing lastUpdate times could be
caused by servers having their times misconfigured.

This defaults to 60, which means 60 seconds. By default, if the shadow
supplier and consumer disagree on the lastUpdate time by more than 60 seconds,
this warning message is logged.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LCR_PARALLELISM

If greater than 1, Meerkat DSA will make parallel requests in the
List Continuation Reference (LCR) procedure defined in
ITU Recommendation X.518 (2019), Section 20.4.2. This number
determines the number of simultaneous chained list operations that
Meerkat DSA will issue at a given time. If set to 0, 1, or some
other non-sense number or non-number, Meerkat DSA will simply run
all chained subrequests in series. More parallelism generally means
that the distributed list operation completes faster.

If this value is set too high, malicious users could issue requests
that propagate into so many outbound chained requests that the
responses act as a Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS).

Despite this setting, Meerkat DSA will not use parallel requests
unless the operation has priority set to "high".

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LDAP_BUFFER_SIZE

The number of bytes in size of the LDAP buffer. This innately limits the size of
an LDAP message. This should be large enough to accomodate all well-intentioned
requests and responses, but small enough to prohibit nefariously large requests
that are intended to exhaust Meerkat DSA's memory.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LDAP_PORT

If set, this names a TCP port on which Meerkat DSA listens locally for LDAP
traffic.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LDAPS_PORT

If set, this names a TCP port on which Meerkat DSA listens locally for LDAPS
(LDAP over TLS) traffic.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOCAL_QUALIFIER_POINTS_FOR_USING_SSL3

The number of
.I localQualifier
"points" that Meerkat DSA grants to a client
for using SSLv3 to secure their traffic.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOCAL_QUALIFIER_POINTS_FOR_USING_STARTTLS

The number of
.I localQualifier
"points" that Meerkat DSA grants to a client
for using StartTLS to secure their traffic.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOCAL_QUALIFIER_POINTS_FOR_USING_TLS

The number of
.I localQualifier
"points" that Meerkat DSA grants to a client
for using any version of Transport Layer Security (TLS) to secure their
traffic.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOCAL_QUALIFIER_POINTS_FOR_USING_TLS_1_0

The number of
.I localQualifier
"points" that Meerkat DSA grants to a client
for using TLS version 1.0 to secure their traffic. These points are added
on top of the points granted via the
\fBMEERKAT_LOCAL_QUALIFIER_POINTS_FOR_USING_TLS\fR environment variable.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOCAL_QUALIFIER_POINTS_FOR_USING_TLS_1_1

The number of
.I localQualifier
"points" that Meerkat DSA grants to a client
for using TLS version 1.1 to secure their traffic. These points are added
on top of the points granted via the
\fBMEERKAT_LOCAL_QUALIFIER_POINTS_FOR_USING_TLS\fR environment variable.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOCAL_QUALIFIER_POINTS_FOR_USING_TLS_1_2

The number of
.I localQualifier
"points" that Meerkat DSA grants to a client
for using TLS version 1.2 to secure their traffic. These points are added
on top of the points granted via the
\fBMEERKAT_LOCAL_QUALIFIER_POINTS_FOR_USING_TLS\fR environment variable.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOCAL_QUALIFIER_POINTS_FOR_USING_TLS_1_3

The number of
.I localQualifier
"points" that Meerkat DSA grants to a client
for using TLS version 1.3 to secure their traffic. These points are added
on top of the points granted via the
\fBMEERKAT_LOCAL_QUALIFIER_POINTS_FOR_USING_TLS\fR environment variable.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_BOUND_DN

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will log the distinguished names of bound clients, if
they have authenticated using a mechanism that relates to an entry in the DIT,
such as simple authentication (as opposed to anonymous access).

It may be desirable to enable this for debugging integrations or for identifying
brute force attacks.

It might NOT be desirable to enable this because doing so could have legal
implications. Meerkat DSA logs IP addresses. If Meerkat DSA also logs
distinguished names, and if distinguished names can readily be related to a real
person (e.g. \fBC=US,ST=FL,CN=John Doe\fR), it could be argued that the logs are
storing Personally-Identifiable Information (PII), because the real person's IP
address is stored in the logs along with their identity.

Consult with an attorney on the legality of using this. It may be safer to only
enable this in corporate or home environments where no such right to privacy
may exist.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_FILE

The filepath of the Meerkat DSA's log file. If set, Meerkat DSA will log to
this file.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_FILE_MAX_FILES

The maximum number of log files Meerkat DSA will produce before it deletes
the oldest one to make room for the newest one.

This has no effect if the \fBMEERKAT_LOG_FILE\fR environment variable is not set.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_FILE_MAX_SIZE

The maximum size (in bytes) of a log file before Meerkat DSA will start a new
log file.

This has no effect if the \fBMEERKAT_LOG_FILE\fR environment variable is not set.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_JSON

Setting this to 1 will cause log messages to be logged in JSON format instead
of the default plain / human-friendly format. This can be useful if your logs
are exported to an SIEM like LogRhythm, or an APM like DataDog or
ElasticSearch.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_LEVEL

This controls the logging level. Can be one of "debug", "info", "warn", or
"error". Log messages at or above the specified level will get logged; all
others will be silently discarded.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_TIMESTAMP

If set to 0 disables the timestamp field of the log output, if the logs are
printed to the console; if set to any other value or unset, timestamps will be
printed to the console, unless Meerkat DSA believes it is running as a SystemD
service, in which case, this will need to be explicitly set to 1 to enable
timestamps. The rationale for this behavior is that Journald keeps its own
timestamps, so any that Meerkat prints are duplicated.


.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_SYSLOG

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will log to the syslog facility. This does not
require any further configuration if you are logging to localhost over UDP port
514. The application name will be "meerkat" by default.

This is not mutually exclusive with console logging or file logging. You can do
all three.

:::note

Meerkat DSA was only going to support console or file logging since those are
the universal and standard--if not the preferred--ways to log things in modern
apps, but support for Syslog required only a tiny additional dependency (with no
transitive dependencies) to work, so it was an obvious choice. In contrast,
something like Windows Event Viewer, Sentry, OpenTelemetry, or AWS Cloudwatch
logging would have required huge dependencies and those can't be tested as
easily.

:::

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_SYSLOG_APP_NAME

The application name in Syslog, when Syslog logging is enabled. By default, this
is "meerkat".

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_SYSLOG_HOST

The host to which Syslog logs will be sent. This is localhost by default.
This has no effect if Syslog logging is not enabled.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_SYSLOG_PORT

The TCP or UDP port number to which Syslog logs will be sent. This is 514 by
default. This has no effect if Syslog logging is not enabled.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_SYSLOG_TCP

If set to 1, your Syslog logs will be transmitted over TCP instead of UDP.
This has no effect if Syslog logging is not
enabled.

TCP is more reliable, and your logs will arrive in order and without duplicates,
but it comes at a performance cost.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_SYSLOG_TIMEOUT

Decimal number indicating the number of milliseconds before the connection
times out. This applies to both TCP and UDP.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_SYSLOG_TLS

If set to 1, Syslog will work use Transport Layer Security (TLS). This has
no effect if Syslog logging is not enabled.

If you do not use this, your Syslog logs will be transmitted without encryption
or integrity. Meerkat DSA logs can contain sensitive data, so you might want to
ensure that this is set unless you are only logging to localhost.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_SYSLOG_REJECT_UNAUTH

If set to 1, and if Syslog over TLS is enabled, Meerkat DSA's Syslog logging
will NOT verify the logging sink's X.509 public key certificate ("TLS
certificate"). Setting this to 1 means that malicious hosts could impersonate
your log sink and receive your logs.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_SYSLOG_CA

Contains a file path to a file containing one or more concatenated PEM-encoded
trust anchor X.509 public key certificates.

This has no effect if Syslog logging is not enabled, or if Syslog over TLS is
not enabled.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_SYSTEMD_LEVEL_PREFIX

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will use an alternative log message format
that is suitable for consumption by journald (part of systemd). This will
allow journald to attribute log levels to logged messages instead of treating
every log message as info-level. This has no effect if Meerkat DSA isn't
running as a systemd service.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOG_TLS_SECRETS

Whether to log TLS master and pre-master secrets to the log so that TLS traffic
can be decrypted. This is used for debugging purposes.

Do not enable this unless:

1. You are debugging.
2. You _need_ to debug TLS-encrypted traffic.
3. The traffic being decrypted is not sensitive at all.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_LOOKUP_UNCERT_STRONG_AUTH

If set to 1, a strong authentication attempt that does not provide
a certification path, but which _does_ provide a distinguished name in
the
.I name
field of the strong credentials, will result in Meerkat DSA
reading the DSE of having the distinguished name
.I name
if it is present
locally, and, if it has object class
.I pkiCertPath
and has attribute
values of type
.I pkiPath
, these values will be used as certification
paths, and each will be tried until a certification path is found that
verifies the bind token. If no such vindicating certification path is
found, Meerkat DSA rejects the authentication attempt. It is strongly
preferred for clients to supply a certification path in the bind argument
so that this lookup need not happen.

Enabling this opens up your Meerkat DSA instance to denial-of-service attacks.
A particular lookup can be computationally expensive, and since a given user may
have an unlimited number of
.I pkiPath
attribute values, this could result in a
potentially unlimited number of certification path validations that must be done
before your DSA accepts or rejects a strong authentication attempt.

It is recommended to keep this disabled, unless the certification path
itself is highly sensitive and should not be sent over the network, and
the potential threat of denial-of-service is controlled for.

Enabling this can be useful if your users must not transmit their certification
path over the network.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_MAX_CONCURRENT_OPERATIONS_PER_CONNECTION

The number of maximum concurrent operations per connection. If a connection
attempts more operations than this permits, they will be automatically
rejected.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_MAX_CONNECTIONS

The absolute maximum number of connections globally. Connections opened after
this maximum has been reached will be automatically closed.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_MAX_CONNECTIONS_PER_ADDRESS

The absolute maximum number of connections permitted from a given address.
Connections by a given address opened after this maximum has been reached will
be automatically closed. This is important for the prevention of Slow Loris
attacks.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_MAX_IDM_PDU_SIZE

The maximum size, in bytes, of an IDM PDU. IDM PDUs larger than this will be
rejected automatically, possibly before they are even fully read.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_MAX_IDM_SEGMENTS

The maximum number of IDM segments into which an IDM client may split an IDM
PDU. This is important for preventing a denial of service. Without this limit,
nefarious IDM clients may submit an infinitely-large number of IDM segments and
exhaust memory.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_MAX_PRE_BIND_REQUESTS

ITU Recommendation X.519 permits clients to submit requests after the bind
request has been submitted, but before the bind response or error has been
received. Meerkat DSA can handle this, but it is important to limit the
number of pre-bind requests so that unauthenticated users cannot flood the
queue with an unlimited number of pending requests and exhaust memory.

It is not a security vulnerability for this to be a number greater than zero,
but it should be a low number. It should probably not be higher than 10.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_MAX_RELAXATIONS

The maximum number of times that a search will be evaluated again with
different matching to produce a desired number of results. This applies to both
relaxations and tightenings. This defaults to 3, if unset. You generally do not
want to make this much larger than three, otherwise nefarious users could use
malicious search requests with a huge number of relaxations or tightenings to
overwhelm your DSA with bogus search re-evaluations.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_MIN_AUTH_LEVEL_FOR_CHAINING

The integer representation of the minimum authentication level required for
Meerkat DSA to chain requests to other DSAs. This is a security feature to
prevent unauthenticated (and therefore, unaccountable) users from spamming
the distributed directory with cumbersome (if not malicious) requests.

This is important, because chaining can have the effect of making a request
"fan-out" to multiple DSAs. A nefarious request may multiply exponentially
without this check in place.

This defaults to 1, which corresponds to simple authentication, meaning that,
to utilize chaining, a user must have authenticated using simple authentication
or something stronger.

Possible values are:

.RS
.TP
-
0 for no authentication / anonymous.
.TP
-
1 for simple authentication, which corresponds to any authentication
  mechanism using a password, regardless of whether that password is presented
  in plain text or with some form of hashing or encryption.
.TP
-
2 for strong authentication, which corresponds to Strong or SPKM authentication.
.RE

.TP
.B MEERKAT_MIN_AUTH_LEVEL_FOR_DISP

The integer representation of the minimum authentication level required for
Meerkat DSA to accept DISP requests.

This defaults to 1, which corresponds to simple authentication, meaning that,
to use DISP, a DSA must have authenticated using simple authentication
or something stronger.

Possible values are:

.RS
.TP
-
0 for no authentication / anonymous.
.TP
-
1 for simple authentication, which corresponds to any authentication
  mechanism using a password, regardless of whether that password is presented
  in plain text or with some form of hashing or encryption.
.TP
-
2 for strong authentication, which corresponds to Strong or SPKM authentication.
.RE

.TP
.B MEERKAT_MIN_AUTH_LEVEL_FOR_OB

The integer representation of the minimum authentication level required for
Meerkat DSA to accept DOP requests.

This defaults to 1, which corresponds to simple authentication, meaning that,
to use DOP, a DSA must have authenticated using simple authentication
or something stronger.

Possible values are:

.RS
.TP
-
0 for no authentication / anonymous.
.TP
-
1 for simple authentication, which corresponds to any authentication
  mechanism using a password, regardless of whether that password is presented
  in plain text or with some form of hashing or encryption.
.TP
-
2 for strong authentication, which corresponds to Strong or SPKM authentication.
.RE

.TP
.B MEERKAT_MIN_AUTH_LOCAL_QUALIFIER_FOR_CHAINING

The minimum
.I localQualifier
"points" required (on top of the minimum
authentication level) for Meerkat DSA to chain requests to other DSAs.
If the minimum authentication level--as configured by the
\fBMEERKAT_MIN_AUTH_LEVEL_FOR_CHAINING\fR environment variable--is exceeded, this
does not matter.

This is important, because chaining can have the effect of making a request
"fan-out" to multiple DSAs. A nefarious request may multiply exponentially
without this check in place.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_MIN_AUTH_LOCAL_QUALIFIER_FOR_DISP

The minimum
.I localQualifier
"points" required (on top of the minimum
authentication level) for Meerkat DSA to accept DISP requests.
If the minimum authentication level--as configured by the
\fBMEERKAT_MIN_AUTH_LEVEL_FOR_DISP\fR environment variable--is exceeded, this
does not matter.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_MIN_AUTH_LOCAL_QUALIFIER_FOR_OB

The minimum
.I localQualifier
"points" required (on top of the minimum
authentication level) for Meerkat DSA to accept DOP requests.
If the minimum authentication level--as configured by the
\fBMEERKAT_MIN_AUTH_LEVEL_FOR_OB\fR environment variable--is exceeded, this
does not matter.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_MIN_TRANSFER_SPEED_BYTES_PER_MINUTE

This specifies the minimum number of bytes a TCP connection is expected to
transfer within one minute. If the average number of bytes per minute falls
below this number, the TCP socket is closed. This is important for the
prevention of Slow Loris attacks.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_MRU_VERTEX_TTL

The number of seconds (the "time to live" or "TTL") during which the most
recently used vertex remains cached in memory along with the connection.

Meerkat DSA caches the most recently used (MRU) vertex in memory along with the
association. This was implemented because users typically "statefully" navigate
the directory, like folders in a file system--they don't bounce around the DIT
randomly. Since there is a strong chance that the next operation a user performs
will be the last-used vertex or one of its subordinates, caching the most
recently used vertex can dramatically reduce the number of database queries and
make many operations extremely fast.

However, these cached vertices MUST eventually expire, otherwise, users could
have out-of-date information or perform operations on entries to which they have
had their permissions revoked since the last operation.

To be clear, use of the most recent vertex **bypasses access controls**,
regarding Browse and ReturnDN permissions. It is assumed that, if the user had
Browse and ReturnDN permissions on the entry, say, three seconds ago, they
still do. This is a small abridgement of access controls made for the sake of
extreme performance gains.

Unless you are frequently modifying access controls, virtually any number should
be fine. The higher a higher cache TTL will give you better performance, but
slower-to-react access controls and potential for data inconsistency.

Note that the cached vertex lifespan is renewed on every operation, so if a user
browses an entry, then you define access controls that prohibit that user from
discovering that entry, the user can still discover it indefinitely for as long
as they:

1. Remain associated
2. Periodically rejuvenate this cache by performing an operation with this entry
3. Do not perform any operation with any other entry on the same association

To disable this behavior entirely, set this to 0. Otherwise, this defaults to
300 (five minutes).

The MRU vertex is cached whenever a
.I removeEntry
or
.I modifyDN
operation is performed, since these can invalidate the cache.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_MUTUAL_AUTH_OPTIONAL

If set to 1, mutual authentication becomes optional when Meerkat DSA binds to
other DSAs. If the remote DSA responds with a bind result containing no
credentials, the DSA will be trusted by fiat. If the remote DSA responds with
a bind result containing credentials, these credentials will be checked for
validity, but if they are invalid, the association will not be aborted as it
otherwise would.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_MY_ACCESS_POINT_NSAPS

Whitespace-separated NSAP URLs that locate this DSA. This is important for
enabling other DSAs to chain requests to this DSA. These NSAP URLs are used to
populate the
.I myAccessPoint
attribute in the Root DSE.

Do NOT include usernames and passwords in any URL you supply with this
environment variable. These URLs will be disclosed freely to all users
regardless of authentication or access control, so nothing sensitive should be
included in them at all.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_NO_COLOR

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will not use colors in log outputs.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_NO_CONSOLE

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will not log to the console.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_OB_AUTO_ACCEPT

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA shall accept ALL requested operational bindings.

Your DSA is INSECURE if this is enabled. It means that your DSA will
automatically agree to:

.RS
.TP
-
Replicate an arbitrarily large amount of data
.TP
-
Defer to any other DSA for chained operations
.TP
-
Create any requested subtree within the DIT
.RE

.TP
.B MEERKAT_ONLY_FOLLOW_SIGNED_REFERRALS

When set to 1 (the default), during chaining Meerkat DSA only follows
referrals that are signed and whose signature verifies. Unsigned referrals and
referrals with invalid signatures are skipped. When set to 0, unsigned referrals
are also followed.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_OPEN_TOP_LEVEL

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will not apply any access controls to adding new
entries to the top level. Note that this does not negate access controls for
already-existing first-level DSEs.

This option being enabled reduces security of the system, because users can
arbitarily create new entries at the top level. Only enable this option if you
would not mind any connected user creating an arbitrarily large number of top
level entries.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_PRINCIPLED_SERVICE_ADMIN

The X.500 specifications mandate that searches are not to recurse into other
service administrative areas, but this means that service admin points will not
be discoverable at all via
.I search
operations. Since LDAP has no
.I list
operation, it also means that LDAP users will never be able to find any entry
that lies in a different service administrative area (except by "guessing" that
it exists).

For example, if \fBC=US,ST=FL\fR is a service admin point, and a user performs a
one-level search at \fBC=US\fR, the \fBST=FL\fR subordinate will be hidden from the
results entirely. The user will have no way of even finding \fBST=FL\fR except for
performing a
.I list
operation and noticing that this subordinate differs from
the results obtained by a one-level search (since
.I list
is not governed by service administration).

Meerkat DSA deviates from the specification by recursing one entry into other
service administrative areas so that the DIT is traversible to users. Continuing
on the previous example, this means that, if a user performs a one-level search
at \fBC=US\fR, the \fBST=FL\fR subordinate will be returned. If a subtree search at
\fBC=US\fR is performed, \fBST=FL\fR will be returned as well, but none of its
subordinates (the latter of which is technically correct behavior).

This option, if set to 1, disables this deviation. Meerkat DSA will thereby
adhere strictly to the specifications and service admin points will be hidden
from search results.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_PRIVATE_KEY_ENGINE

This is an open-ended string that specifies the private key engine that
OpenSSL can use to obtain a private key.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_PROHIBIT_CHAINING

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will not chain any requests. If you expect to operate
your DSA instance in isolation from all other DSAs, it is recommended to enable
this (meaning that chaining would be disabled).

.TP
.B MEERKAT_REMOTE_PWD_LOCAL_SCOPE

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will only check remote passwords within a "local
scope." In other words, if a user attempts to authenticate with a password, and
the entry containing that password does not reside in this DSA, this DSA might
attempt to check the asserted password with the correct DSA; in this case, if
"locally-scoped" Meerkat DSA will only forward this password to the correct DSA
if the correct DSA is "local" to this DSA.

In Meerkat DSA, "local scope" is defined as the same country, DMD, or
organization, as determined by the correspondent DSAs' Application Entity (AE)
titles (for your DSA, this is determined by your signing certificate).
More precisely, the algorithm starts from the next-to-last RDN in the DN of
each AE title and removes RDNs from the end until an RDN contains either
the `organizationName` or `dmdName` attributes, then the resulting
distinguished name prefixes are compared; if no such RDN is found, the
country is considered the "local scope" and comparison proceeds as described
below.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_REMOTE_PWD_TIME_LIMIT

The number of seconds before the remote password checking procedure (described
in ITU Recommendation X.511 (2019), Section 10.2.7) times out. If this is set to
0, this procedure is never used. This defaults to 0, meaning that this procedure
is disabled by default.

It is strongly recommended to avoid enabling this feature unless the names
of most or all entries in your DSA are NOT a secret. That is because a remote
password assertion will introduce significant latency into the bind operation,
which can be used to oracle which entries exist.

In other words, a nefarious
user could guess common relative distinguished names, such as \fBCN=John Smith\fR,
and see if the bind response (or error) for that entry returns significantly
faster than a known non-existent entry (the nefarious user could just guess a
random RDN, such as \fBCN=qtuihqjoitjoqpoj1\fR for this purpose) to determine whether
\fBCN=John Smith\fR exists locally in that DSA, even if this nefarious user does not
have the proper permissions to discover that entry.

If this feature is enabled, it is recommended that you increase the values of
the
\fBMEERKAT_BIND_MIN_SLEEP_MS\fR and
\fBMEERKAT_BIND_SLEEP_RANGE_MS\fR configuration
options, which will help to obscure when asserted credentials are chained to a
remote DSA.

In addition to the above concern, enabling this feature can slow down bind
operations. If you are under regular brute-force attacks or are generally under
resource strain, you may want to leave this feature disabled.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SHADOW_SECONDARY_REPLICA_UPDATE_CONCURRENCY

The maximum number of secondary replica updates that can be performed concurrently
when this DSA receives a shadow update. When a shadow update is received from a
supplier, this DSA will propagate the update to all of its secondary shadow
consumers. This value controls how many of those updates can happen in parallel.

This defaults to 2. Setting this to a higher value will allow more secondary
replicas to be updated simultaneously, which can speed up propagation but may
consume more network bandwidth and system resources. Setting this to 1 will
update secondary replicas sequentially, which is slower but uses fewer resources.
Setting this to 0 or a negative value is not recommended and may cause
unexpected behavior.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SHADOW_TOTAL_REFRESH_DELETION_PAGE_SIZE

The number of entries read per page when deleting entries not included in a total
refresh from a shadow producer. Defaults to 100. Must be a positive integer.
Concurrency multiplies the amount of simultaneous pagination through the database.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SHADOW_TOTAL_REFRESH_VERTEX_CONCURRENCY

Maximum number of subordinate vertexes processed concurrently when building a total
refresh tree for shadow updates. Defaults to 4. Higher values speed up total
refresh construction but use more resources; lower values or 1 reduce resource usage.
0 or negative values are not recommended.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_REQUEST_CROSS_REFERENCES

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will request cross references from other DSAs, and,
pending validation, will apply them to the local DSAIT, which may make the
routing of requests faster.

This is off by default because there are some security risks of accepting
cross references. Downstream DSAs may attempt to lie in an attempt to claim
ownership of contexts that they do not own, or point to DSAs that serve an
entirely separate DIT.

See ITU Recommendation X.501 (2019), Annex S, section S.2.

You should NOT turn this on unless you can trust all DSAs involved in your DSAIT
to be trustworthy and competent.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_RETURN_CROSS_REFERENCES

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will return cross references to context prefixes it
owns and that it encounters during the process of name resolution within the
DSAIT. Note that this does not--nor does any other option--determine whether
the local DSA returns cross references returned from other DSAs. The local DSA
will back-propagate cross references it receives to previous DSAs.

This is off by default because the use of cross references can disclose
important secret information, such as the location or network addresses of other
DSAs that are supposed to remain undisclosed.

You should NOT turn this on unless you can trust all DSAs involved in your DSAIT
to be correctly implemented and you know that all knowledge references in your
DSAIT are not secret.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_REVEAL_USER_PWD

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will return non-zero-length \fBOCTET STRING\fRs in the
.I encryptedString
field of the
.I userPwd
attribute's value. Meerkat DSA does not store passwords unencrypted.

Meerkat DSA does not do this by default because it could expose your users to
offline dictionary attacks, which is an exponentially greater threat than
automated brute-force password guessing, because it can be done an order of
magnitude faster.

If you enable this feature, attackers that have permissions to view values of
the
.I userPwd
attribute can download / save those values and attempt rapid, repeated guesses
of the hashed password without the rate-limiting that Meerkat DSA imposes.

It is recommended that you keep this disabled unless you know you need it for
some reason. If enabled, you should configure access controls to prevent
unauthorized users from viewing values of the
.I userPwd
attribute.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCR_PARALLELISM

If greater than 1, Meerkat DSA will make parallel requests in the
Search Continuation Reference (SCR) procedure defined in
ITU Recommendation X.518 (2019), Section 20.4.3. This number
determines the number of simultaneous chained search operations that
Meerkat DSA will issue at a given time. If set to 0, 1, or some
other non-sense number or non-number, Meerkat DSA will simply run
all chained subrequests in series. More parallelism generally means
that the distributed search operation completes faster.

If this value is set too high, malicious users could issue requests
that propagate into so many outbound chained requests that the
responses act as a Distributed Denial-of-Service (DDoS).

Despite this setting, Meerkat DSA will not use parallel requests
unless the operation has priority set to "high".

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_ATTR_CERT_CHECKS

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_ATTR_CERT_WANT_BACKS

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_CACHED_RESPONSE

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_DISCLOSE_AE_TITLE

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_FULL_REQUEST_IN_RESPONSE

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_HASH_ALGORITHM

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_INHIBIT_ANY_POLICY

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_INHIBIT_POLICY_MAPPING

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_PROTECT_RESPONSE

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_PUBLIC_KEY_CERT_CHECKS

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_PUBLIC_KEY_CERT_WANT_BACKS

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_REQUESTOR_TEXT

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_REQUIRE_EXPLICIT_POLICY

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_RESPONSE_VALIDATION_POLICY_BY_REF

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_SIGNATURE_ALGORITHM

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_URL

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_VALIDATION_ALGORITHM_ID

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SCVP_VALIDATION_POLICY_REF_ID

Server-based Certificate Validation Protocol (SCVP)
is not currently supported in Meerkat DSA, so setting this environment variable
will have no effect. This is merely reserved for later use.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SENTINEL_DOMAIN

This is a fully-qualified DNS name. If it contains a TXT record whose text is
"meerkat:kill", Meerkat DSA will exit as soon as it detects this. If this
record's text is "meerkat:hibernate", Meerkat DSA will enter hibernation as
soon as it detects this.

This exists so that Meerkat DSA may be remotely shut down in the event that
a severe security vulnerability is discovered. It is a "remote killswitch."

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_ACCEPTABLE_CERT_POLICIES

A list of object identifiers of certificate policies that are acceptable for a
X.509 certification path processing for certification paths used for signed
arguments, results, or errors.

The value of this environment variable, if set, should be a comma-delimited list
of period-delimited object identifiers of the acceptable certification
policies (e.g. "1.2.3.4, 5.6.7.8"). Whitespace between object identifiers and
commas is tolerated.

If not set, any policy or no explicit policy will be considered acceptable for
the purposes of X.509 certification path processing.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_BIND_ACCEPTABLE_CERT_POLICIES

This environment variable overrides the value of
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_ACCEPTABLE_CERT_POLICIES\fR
for the bind operation for all application contexts / protocols.

In the case of DAP, DSP, DOP, and DISP, this governs the validation of the
bind token used in strong authentication.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_BIND_CRL_DP_ATTEMPTS_PER_CERT

This environment variable overrides the value of
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_CRL_DP_ATTEMPTS_PER_CERT\fR
for the bind operation for all application contexts / protocols.

In the case of DAP, DSP, DOP, and DISP, this governs the validation of the
bind token used in strong authentication.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_BIND_MAX_ENDPOINTS_PER_CRL_DP

This environment variable overrides the value of
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_MAX_ENDPOINTS_PER_CRL_DP\fR
for the bind operation for all application contexts / protocols.

In the case of DAP, DSP, DOP, and DISP, this governs the validation of the
bind token used in strong authentication.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_BIND_OCSP_CHECKINESS

This environment variable overrides the value of
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_CHECKINESS\fR
for the bind operation for all application contexts / protocols.

In the case of DAP, DSP, DOP, and DISP, this governs the validation of the
bind token used in strong authentication.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_BIND_OCSP_MAX_REQUESTS_PER_CERT

This environment variable overrides the value of
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_MAX_REQUESTS_PER_CERT\fR
for the bind operation for all application contexts / protocols.

In the case of DAP, DSP, DOP, and DISP, this governs the validation of the
bind token used in strong authentication.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_BIND_OCSP_SIGN_REQUESTS

This environment variable overrides the value of
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_SIGN_REQUESTS\fR
for the bind operation for all application contexts / protocols.

In the case of DAP, DSP, DOP, and DISP, this governs the validation of the
bind token used in strong authentication.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_BIND_OCSP_TIMEOUT

This environment variable overrides the value of
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_TIMEOUT\fR
for the bind operation for all application contexts / protocols.

In the case of DAP, DSP, DOP, and DISP, this governs the validation of the
bind token used in strong authentication.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_BIND_OCSP_UNKNOWN_IS_FAILURE

This environment variable overrides the value of
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_UNKNOWN_IS_FAILURE\fR
for the bind operation for all application contexts / protocols.

In the case of DAP, DSP, DOP, and DISP, this governs the validation of the
bind token used in strong authentication.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_BIND_REMOTE_CRL_CACHE_TTL

This environment variable overrides the value of
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_REMOTE_CRL_CACHE_TTL\fR
for the bind operation for all application contexts / protocols.

In the case of DAP, DSP, DOP, and DISP, this governs the validation of the
bind token used in strong authentication.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_BIND_REMOTE_CRL_CHECKINESS

This environment variable overrides the value of
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_REMOTE_CRL_CHECKINESS\fR
for the bind operation for all application contexts / protocols.

In the case of DAP, DSP, DOP, and DISP, this governs the validation of the
bind token used in strong authentication.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_BIND_REMOTE_CRL_SIZE_LIMIT

This environment variable overrides the value of
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_REMOTE_CRL_SIZE_LIMIT\fR
for the bind operation for all application contexts / protocols.

In the case of DAP, DSP, DOP, and DISP, this governs the validation of the
bind token used in strong authentication.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_BIND_REMOTE_CRL_SUPPORTED_PROTOCOLS

This environment variable overrides the value of
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_REMOTE_CRL_SUPPORTED_PROTOCOLS\fR
for the bind operation for all application contexts / protocols.

In the case of DAP, DSP, DOP, and DISP, this governs the validation of the
bind token used in strong authentication.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_BIND_REMOTE_CRL_TIMEOUT

This environment variable overrides the value of
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_REMOTE_CRL_TIMEOUT\fR
for the bind operation for all application contexts / protocols.

In the case of DAP, DSP, DOP, and DISP, this governs the validation of the
bind token used in strong authentication.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_BIND_TOLERATE_UNAVAILABLE_REMOTE_CRL

This environment variable overrides the value of
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_TOLERATE_UNAVAILABLE_REMOTE_CRL\fR
for the bind operation for all application contexts / protocols.

In the case of DAP, DSP, DOP, and DISP, this governs the validation of the
bind token used in strong authentication.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_CA_FILE

The filepath of the certificate authority certificates file to use for
verifying signed arguments, results, and errors. This is NOT used for TLS; the
TLS equivalent of this variable is \fBMEERKAT_TLS_CA_FILE\fR.

The format of this file is the same as
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_CERTS_CHAIN_FILE\fR, but there
is no meaning imputed to the ordering of certificates in this file.

If this is unspecified, a default bundle of trust anchors that are built into
the NodeJS runtime (curated by Mozilla) are trusted. This is usually good
enough for most use cases.

If this option _is_ specified, it does not _add_ to the default trust anchors
mentioned above: it _overwrites_ them. That means that, if you want to add your
own trust anchor, but still trust Mozilla's curated default trust anchors, you
MUST obtain this bundle of certificates and add it to this file.

This option does _add_ to the trust anchors trusted with the
\fBMEERKAT_TRUST_ANCHORS_FILE\fR file.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_CERTS_CHAIN_FILE

The filepath to a certificate chain to use for signing requests and responses
from the DSA. This does not affect TLS and may be a totally different chain
than that used for TLS.

This file should have the same exact formatting as
\fBMEERKAT_TLS_CERT_FILE\fR.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_CRL_DP_ATTEMPTS_PER_CERT

The maximum number of CRL distribution points from which to attempt to fetch a
remote CRL per a given X.509 certificate.

To limit the number of endpoints within a distribution point that get checked,
see \fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_MAX_ENDPOINTS_PER_CRL_DP\fR.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_CRL_FILE

The filepath to the PEM-encoded certificate revocation list (CRL) file to use
for evaluating the status of certificates used for signed arguments, results,
and errors.

There may be multiple CRLs concatenated together. There is no meaning imputed to
the ordering of CRLs in this file.

The file contents should look like this if you open them up in a text editor:

.RS
.nf
-----BEGIN X509 CRL-----
<Some base64-encoded data starting with "MII">
-----END X509 CRL-----
-----BEGIN X509 CRL-----
<Some base64-encoded data starting with "MII">
-----END X509 CRL-----
-----BEGIN X509 CRL-----
<Some base64-encoded data starting with "MII">
-----END X509 CRL-----
.fi
.RE

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_DISABLE_VERIFICATION

Whether no digital signatures should be checked at all. If this is set to
1, all digital signatures and certification paths will not be checked at all.

When used for bind operations using strong authentication, the signature
will always be treated as invalid. The rationale for this is that it
prevents users from obtaining strong authentication with invalid
credentials. Users will be forced to use simple or lesser authentication.

For all other operations, signatures will simply be ignored, but requests
may be treated as signed for the purposes of validation.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_ERRORS_MIN_AUTH_LEVEL

This overrides the value of \fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_MIN_AUTH_LEVEL\fR, but only for
signed errors.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_ERRORS_MIN_AUTH_LOCAL_QUALIFIER

This overrides the value of \fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_MIN_AUTH_LOCAL_QUALIFIER\fR,
but only for signed errors.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_ERRORS_MIN_AUTH_SIGNED

This overrides the value of \fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_MIN_AUTH_SIGNED\fR, but only for
signed errors.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_KEY_FILE

The filepath to the PEM-encoded PKCS #8-formatted private key to use for signing
arguments, results, and errors from this DSA. This does not affect TLS and may
be a totally different key than that used for TLS (which is configured via the
\fBMEERKAT_TLS_KEY_FILE\fR.

The file contents should look like this if you open them up in a text editor:

.RS
.nf
-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
<Some base64-encoded data starting with "MII">
-----END PRIVATE KEY-----
.fi
.RE

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_MAX_ENDPOINTS_PER_CRL_DP

The maximum number of endpoints (URLs, directory names, etc.) to check within a
given CRL distribution point listed on an X.509 certificate. This MUST be unset
or an unsigned decimal integer.

To limit the number of distribution points checked, see
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_CRL_DP_ATTEMPTS_PER_CERT\fR.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_MIN_AUTH_LEVEL

The integer representation of the minimum authentication level required for
Meerkat DSA to sign results or errors to a client. If a client does not meet
this level of authentication, requests for signed results or errors will not
be honored; it will not result in an error if the client requests signed results
or errors.

This is important, because digital signing can be computationally expensive, so
it may be desirable to prevent anonymous users from overwhelming the directory
with unnecessary signing.

This defaults to 1, which corresponds to simple authentication, meaning that,
to receive signed results or errors, a user must have authenticated using simple
authentication or something stronger.

Possible values are:

.RS
.TP
-
0 for no authentication / anonymous.
.TP
-
1 for simple authentication, which corresponds to any authentication
  mechanism using a password, regardless of whether that password is presented
  in plain text or with some form of hashing or encryption.
.TP
-
2 for strong authentication, which corresponds to Strong or SPKM authentication.
.RE

If a different setting is desired for errors only, consider setting the
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_ERRORS_MIN_AUTH_LEVEL\fR
environment variable to override this for errors.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_MIN_AUTH_LOCAL_QUALIFIER

The minimum
.I localQualifier
"points" required (on top of the minimum
authentication level) for Meerkat DSA to sign results or errors for a given
client / association. This shall be a positive integer.

If the minimum authentication level--as configured by the
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_MIN_AUTH_LEVEL\fR environment variable--is exceeded, this
value does not matter.

If a different setting is desired for errors only, consider setting the
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_ERRORS_MIN_AUTH_LOCAL_QUALIFIER\fR
environment variable to override this for errors.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_MIN_AUTH_SIGNED

If set to 1 a client association shall have signed arguments for a given
operation in order to receive signed results or errors.

If a different setting is desired for errors only, consider setting the
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_ERRORS_MIN_AUTH_SIGNED\fR
environment variable to override this for errors.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_CHECKINESS

If set to 0 or unset, this DSA will not check with OCSP responders for the
status of an asserted certificate used in producing signed arguments, results,
or errors. If greater than zero, this DSA will check
with OCSP responders for the status of an asserted certificate (if an OCSP
responder is defined for that certificate)
~~and cache the result for this value's number of seconds~~.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_MAX_REQUESTS_PER_CERT

The maximum number of OCSP responders to check with before giving up for a given
certificate. This MUST be an unsigned integer, or unset. If unset, this defaults
to 3.

This only applies to OCSP responses obtained in the verification of signed
arguments, results, and errors--not TLS peers. The equivalent of this
configuration option for TLS peers is
\fBMEERKAT_TLS_OCSP_MAX_REQUESTS_PER_CERT\fR.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_REPLAY_WINDOW

The number of seconds by which the OCSP
.I producedAt
time and
.I thisUpdate
time may differ from the current time before an OCSP response is
considered invalid on the grounds of being a possible replay attack.

This only affects OCSP verification of signed arguments, results, or errors; the
equivalent of this configuration option that controls OCSP verification for TLS
is \fBMEERKAT_TLS_OCSP_REPLAY_WINDOW\fR.

An attacker's ability to replay an OCSP response is not too dangerous as long as
this threshold is low (in other words, the window is small). If the replay
window is large, it means that, if an attacker can intercept your communication
with the OCSP responder, he can replay the OCSP response to illegitimately make
it appear as though the certificate is still valid. If the replay window is too
small, such as 1 second, then a slight variation in the OCSP responder's system
clock could mean that Meerkat DSA rejects the response as a "replay" (speciously).
This is like the "clockskew" configuration option in MIT's Kerberos
implementation.

It is recommended that you leave this at the **default value of 15 seconds**.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_RESPONSE_SIZE_LIMIT

The maximum size in bytes of OCSP responses. If an OCSP response is fetched and
it exceeds this size, Meerkat DSA will cancel fetching it, and/or refuse to
decode it. This limit should NOT be considered exact.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_SIGN_REQUESTS

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will use its signing key to digitally sign OCSP
requests issued to verify signed arguments, results, or errors, and present its
signing certificate chain to the OCSP responder.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_TIMEOUT

The number of seconds for a given OCSP responder to respond before Meerkat DSA
abandons the request. If set, this MUST be an unsigned decimal integer. This
setting only applies to the verification of signed arguments, results, and
errors; the equivalent setting for TLS is
\fBMEERKAT_TLS_OCSP_TIMEOUT\fR.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_UNKNOWN_IS_FAILURE

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will treat OCSP responses that indicate that a
certificate's status is "unknown" as a failure, as though the certificate was
"revoked". This only applies to verification of signed arguments, results, or
errors--not OCSP responses received via TLS.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_PERMITTED_ALGORITHMS

A comma-delimited list of dot-formatted object identifiers of signing algorithms
that are permitted for verifying signed arguments, results, and errors.
Whitespace is tolerated between object identifiers and commas.

If specified, only the intersection of this list and Meerkat DSA's innately
supported signature algorithms will be tolerated in digital signatures. If not
specified, Meerkat will tolerate the use of any of its supported signature
algorithms.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_REMOTE_CRL_CACHE_TTL

The number of seconds during which a fetched remote CRL shall remain in the
cache of remote CRLs. If set, this MUST be an unsigned decimal integer. If not
set, this defaults to 300 (five minutes).

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_REMOTE_CRL_CHECKINESS

Determines how aggressively this DSA demands to check remote CRLs.

Possible values are:

.RS
.TP
-
0, meaning _never_ check remote CRLs.
.TP
-
1, meaning _only_ check remote CRLs when the cRLDistributionPoints X.509v3
  extension is marked as "critical."
.TP
-
2, meaning _always_ check remote CRLs, even if the cRLDistributionPoints
  X.509v3 extension is _not_ marked as "critical."
.RE

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_REMOTE_CRL_SIZE_LIMIT

The maximum size in bytes of remote CRLs. If a remote CRL is fetched and it
exceeds this size, Meerkat DSA will cancel fetching it. This limit should NOT be considered exact. When used by LDAP, which can return multiple objects in
a single "fetch," the size limit applies to the entire response packet. When
used by DAP, this applies per-attribute, but remote DSAs may ignore this.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_REMOTE_CRL_SUPPORTED_PROTOCOLS

The protcols to be supported by remote CRL fetching, identified by their URL
scheme equivalents, e.g. "http", "ftp", "ldaps", etc. If undefined, all
supported fetching protocols will be allowed. Protocols MUST be separated by
commas and optional whitespace.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_REMOTE_CRL_TIMEOUT

The number of seconds for a given CRL distribution point to respond before
Meerkat DSA abandons the request. If specified, this MUST be an unsigned decimal
integer. If unspecified, this defaults to 5 (five seconds).

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_REQUIRED_FOR_CHAINING

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will NOT chain DAP operations that have not been
signed.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_REQUIRED_FOR_DISP

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will reject Directory Information Shadowing Protocol
(DISP) requests that are not signed.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_REQUIRED_FOR_OB

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will reject Directory Operational Binding Management
Protocol (DOP) requests that are not signed.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_REQUIRED_TO_TRUST_XR

Unless set to 0, Meerkat DSA will require cross references that it applies to
its own local DSAIT to be cryptographically signed.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SIGNING_TOLERATE_UNAVAILABLE_REMOTE_CRL

If set to 1, unavailable remote CRLs will not be treated as a failure for the
purposes of certification path validation.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_SSLKEYLOG_FILE

Whether to log TLS master and pre-master secrets to a file so that TLS traffic
can be decrypted. This is used for debugging purposes.

Do not enable this unless:

.NH 1
You are debugging.
.NH 1
You _need_ to debug TLS-encrypted traffic.
.NH 1
The traffic being decrypted is not sensitive at all.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TCP_NO_DELAY

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will disable Nagle's algorithm for TCP connections.
This exists as a slight performance enhancement. There is little reason to use
this.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TCP_TIMEOUT_IN_SECONDS

The amount of time (in seconds) after receiving no bytes from the TCP socket
after which the TCP connection will be reset.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_ANSWER_OCSP_REQUESTS

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will answer OCSP requests submitted as a part of the
TLS handshake.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_CA_FILE

The filepath of the certificate authority certificates file to use for TLS. This
is used both for validating TLS clients that connect to Meerkat DSA and TLS
servers to which Meerkat DSA connects as a client (such as in chained
operations).

The format of this file is the same as \fBMEERKAT_TLS_CERT_FILE\fR, but there is
no meaning imputed to the ordering of certificates in this file.

If this is unspecified, a default bundle of trust anchors that are built into
the NodeJS runtime (curated by Mozilla) are trusted. This is usually good
enough for most use cases.

If this option _is_ specified, it does not _add_ to the default trust anchors
mentioned above: it _overwrites_ them. That means that, if you want to add your
own trust anchor, but still trust Mozilla's curated default trust anchors, you
MUST obtain this bundle of certificates and add it to this file.

This does not affect the verification of signed arguments, results, or errors;
the equivalent of this environment variable that affects signing is:
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_CA_FILE\fR.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_CERT_FILE

The filepath of the PEM-encoded X.509 certificate chain to use for TLS. The
certs should be ordered by ascending authority: in other words, the certificate
authority / trust anchor certificate should be closest to the _bottom_ of the
file and the end-entity certificate (used directly by Meerkat DSA) should be
closest to the _top_ of the file.

The file contents should look like this if you open them up in a text editor:

.RS
.nf
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
<Some base64-encoded data starting with "MII">
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
<Some base64-encoded data starting with "MII">
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
-----BEGIN CERTIFICATE-----
<Some base64-encoded data starting with "MII">
-----END CERTIFICATE-----
.fi
.RE

This does not affect the production of signed arguments, results, or errors;
the equivalent of this environment variable that affects signing is:
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_CERTS_CHAIN_FILE\fR.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_CIPHERS

The OpenSSL-formatted cipher list to use for TLS.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_CLIENT_CERT_AUTH

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will demand client certificate authentication to
establish a TLS socket with a client.

Note that there is little point to enabling this if non-TLS versions of the
directory protocols are enabled.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_CRL_FILE

The filepath to the PEM-encoded certificate revocation list (CRL) file to use
for evaluating the status of TLS client certificates. There may be multiple
CRLs concatenated together. There is no meaning imputed to the ordering of CRLs
in this file.

The file contents should look like this if you open them up in a text editor:

.RS
.nf
-----BEGIN X509 CRL-----
<Some base64-encoded data starting with "MII">
-----END X509 CRL-----
-----BEGIN X509 CRL-----
<Some base64-encoded data starting with "MII">
-----END X509 CRL-----
-----BEGIN X509 CRL-----
<Some base64-encoded data starting with "MII">
-----END X509 CRL-----
.fi
.RE

This does not affect the verification of signed arguments, results, or errors;
the equivalent of this environment variable that affects signing is:
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_CRL_FILE\fR.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_DH_PARAM_FILE

The filepath to the Diffie-Hellman parameters to use to enable Perfect Forward
Secrecy (PFS).

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_ENABLE_TRACE

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will log trace information on inbound and outbound
TLS packets.

When enabled, TLS packet trace information is written to
.I stderr
\&. This can be used to debug TLS connection problems.

The format of the output is identical to the output of
.B openssl s_client -trace
or
.B openssl s_server -trace
\&. While it is produced by OpenSSL's
.B SSL_trace()
function, the format is undocumented, can change without notice, and should not
be relied on.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_HANDSHAKE_TIMEOUT_IN_SECONDS

The number of seconds before completing the handshake after which a TLS socket
will be closed.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_KEY_FILE

The filepath to the PEM-encoded PKCS #8-formatted private key to use for TLS.

The file contents should look like this if you open them up in a text editor:

.RS
.nf
-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
<Some base64-encoded data starting with "MII">
-----END PRIVATE KEY-----
.fi
.RE

This does not affect the production of signed arguments, results, or errors;
the equivalent of this environment variable that affects signing is:
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_KEY_FILE\fR.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_KEY_PASSPHRASE

The password to use to decrypt the private key to use for TLS.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_MAX_VERSION

The maximum TLS version supported as a string. Possible values are:
"TLSv1.3", "TLSv1.2", "TLSv1.1", "TLSv1".

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_MIN_VERSION

The minimum TLS version supported. Possible values are:
"TLSv1.3", "TLSv1.2", "TLSv1.1", "TLSv1".

Avoid setting this value to "TLSv1.1" or "TLSv1" unless absolutely necessary.
These versions of TLS are much less secure. (Though, still better than no
TLS at all.)

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_OCSP_CHECKINESS

If set to 0 or unset, this DSA will not check with OCSP responders for the
status of an asserted certificate used in TLS. If greater than zero, this DSA
will check with OCSP responders for the status of an asserted certificate (if an
OCSP responder is defined for that certificate)
~~and cache the result for this value's number of seconds~~.

This does not affect the verification of signed arguments, results, or errors;
the equivalent of this environment variable that affects signing is:
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_CHECKINESS\fR.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_OCSP_MAX_REQUESTS_PER_CERT

The maximum number of OCSP responders to check with before giving up for a given
certificate. This MUST be an unsigned integer, or unset. If unset, this defaults
to 3.

This only applies to OCSP responses obtained in the verification TLS peers--not
signed arguments, results, or errors. The equivalent of this
configuration option for signed arguments, results, or errors is
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_MAX_REQUESTS_PER_CERT\fR.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_OCSP_REPLAY_WINDOW

The number of seconds by which the OCSP
.I producedAt
time and
.I thisUpdate
time may differ from the current time before an OCSP response is
considered invalid on the grounds of being a possible replay attack.

This only affects OCSP verification for TLS and does not affect OCSP
verification for signed arguments, results, or errors; that is controlled by
the \fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_REPLAY_WINDOW\fR configuration option.

An attacker's ability to replay an OCSP response is not too dangerous as long as
this threshold is low (in other words, the window is small). If the replay
window is large, it means that, if an attacker can intercept your communication
with the OCSP responder, he can replay the OCSP response to illegitimately make
it appear as though the certificate is still valid. If the replay window is too
small, such as 1 second, then a slight variation in the OCSP responder's system
clock could mean that Meerkat DSA rejects the response as a "replay" (speciously).
This is like the "clockskew" configuration option in MIT's Kerberos implementation.

It is recommended that you leave this at the **default value of 15 seconds**.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_OCSP_RESPONSE_SIZE_LIMIT

The maximum size in bytes of OCSP responses. If an OCSP response is fetched and
it exceeds this size, Meerkat DSA will cancel fetching it, and/or refuse to
decode it. This limit should NOT be considered exact.

This only affects OCSP verification for TLS and does not affect OCSP
verification for signed arguments, results, or errors; that is controlled by the
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_RESPONSE_SIZE_LIMIT\fR configuration option.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_OCSP_SIGN_REQUESTS

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will use its signing key to digitally sign OCSP
requests issued in relation to TLS, and present its
signing certificate chain to the OCSP responder.

This does not affect the verification of signed arguments, results, or errors;
the equivalent of this environment variable that affects signing is:
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_SIGN_REQUESTS\fR.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_OCSP_TIMEOUT

The number of seconds for a given OCSP responder to respond before Meerkat DSA
abandons the request. If set, this MUST be an unsigned decimal integer.

This does not affect the verification of signed arguments, results, or errors;
the equivalent of this environment variable that affects signing is:
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_TIMEOUT\fR.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_OCSP_UNKNOWN_IS_FAILURE

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will treat OCSP responses that indicate that a
certificate's status is "unknown" as a failure, as though the certificate was
"revoked". This only applies to verification OCSP responses received via TLS and
does not affect the verification of signed arguments, results, or errors.

This does not affect the verification of signed arguments, results, or errors;
the equivalent of this environment variable that affects signing is:
\fBMEERKAT_SIGNING_OCSP_UNKNOWN_IS_FAILURE\fR.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_PFX_FILE

The filepath to a PFX / PKCS #12 file to use for TLS.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED_CLIENTS

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will refuse to establish a TLS session with a
client that does not present a valid X.509 certification path that can be trusted
according to the trust anchors defined in the \fBMEERKAT_TLS_CA_FILE\fR file. This
is used to enable TLS client certificate authentication, otherwise known as
Mutual TLS (mTLS). This defaults to 0, meaning that it will be disabled.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED_SERVERS

If set to 0, Meerkat DSA will NOT refuse to establish a TLS session with a
server that does not present a valid X.509 certification path that can be trusted
according to the trust anchors defined in the \fBMEERKAT_TLS_CA_FILE\fR file. This
defaults to enabled, meaning that the identities of TLS servers will be checked
as is usually expected from TLS.

It is a security vulnerability to set this to 0, because Meerkat DSA will not
check the identities of peers that it connects to over TLS!

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_REQUEST_CERT

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will request the client certificate on TLS or
StartTLS associations. Note that this option is automatically enabled when
\fBMEERKAT_TLS_REJECT_UNAUTHORIZED_CLIENTS\fR(./env.md#meerkat_tls_reject_unauthorized_clients).

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_REQUEST_OCSP

If set to 1, Meerkat DSA will request OCSP stapling from TLS peers to which
it acts as a client and validate the stapled OCSP responses, if present. This
applies to both TLS clients and TLS servers.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_SESSION_TIMEOUT_IN_SECONDS

The time after which a TLS session will expire and a TLS client will have to
negotiate a new pre-master secret.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TLS_SIG_ALGS

Colon-separated list of supported signature algorithms. The list can contain
digest algorithms (SHA256, MD5 etc.), public key algorithms (RSA-PSS, ECDSA
etc.), combination of both (e.g 'RSA+SHA384') or TLS v1.3 scheme names (e.g.
rsa_pss_pss_sha512).

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TRANSCODE_DISTINGUISHED_VALUES_TO_DER

Currently unused.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TRANSCODE_VALUES_TO_DER

Currently unused.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TRUST_ANCHORS_FILE

The filepath of the Trust Anchor List file. See
IETF RFC 5914. This file
contains information on the trust anchors to be used for verifying
signed arguments, results, and errors.

The trust anchor list shall be encapsulated in a Cryptographic Message Syntax
(CMS) message. It does not need to be the top-level object, however. It can be
nested within authenticated data, signed data, or digested data objects, as
defined in IETF RFC 5652.

This file may also be PEM-encoded. The PEM label must be "TRUST ANCHOR LIST",
such that the file looks like this when opened in a text editor:

.RS
.nf
-----BEGIN TRUST ANCHOR LIST-----
<Some base64-encoded data>
-----END TRUST ANCHOR LIST-----
.fi
.RE

This file is NOT used for verifying TLS peers.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_TRUST_FOR_IBRA

If set to "*", all remote DSAs will be trusted for Identity-Based Requester
Authentication (IBRA), as described in ITU Recommendation X.518 (2019),
Section 22.1.1. If set to "SUPR", all remote DSAs that have a superior
hierarchical binding outstanding with the local DSA will be automatically
trusted for IBRA; this will have no effect on new operational bindings
until the DSA is restarted.

Otherwise, remote DSAs will only be trusted for IBRA if explicitly checked in
the web admin console when their proposed operational bindings
are manually accepted.

Do NOT enable this setting for any production workloads. If enabled, users can
entirely bypass access controls by issuing DSP requests claiming to be a trusted
DSA and claim to be relaying a request for any user.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_USE_DATABASE_WHEN_THERE_ARE_X_SUBORDINATES

Even if subordinates are cached in memory, Meerkat DSA will directly query the
database to find a specific subordinate instead of iterating through the
in-memory entries when there are more than this many subordinates in memory.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_VENDOR_NAME

Overrides the name of the vendor of this DSA, which is displayed in the root DSE
as the
.I vendorName
attribute. If this is unset, the
.I vendorName
attribute will read "Wildboar Software" regardless of the server's locale or
language settings.

Revealing that you are using a Meerkat DSA instance may make it easier for
malicious users to profile your DSA in cyberattack attempts. For instance, if it
is known that there is a new security vulnerability in Meerkat DSA, malicious
users may search for DSAs whose
.I vendorName
attribute indicates that the DSA
is made by Wildboar Software. To disable the
.I vendorName
from displaying that
this DSA is made by Wildboar Software, set the \fBMEERKAT_VENDOR_NAME\fR
environment variable to an empty string ("").

The benefit of not disabling this is that, if there are bugs in how Meerkat DSA
(or a given version of it) is implemented, clients can use this version
information for possible workarounds. Minor discrepancies in implementation can
be handled by clients when the vendor name and version can be discovered.

Setting the \fBMEERKAT_VENDOR_NAME\fR to an empty string will also disable the
display of the vendor version, since it is assumed that desire for secrecy of
the vendor version implies a desire for secrecy of the vendor version as well.
The reverse is _not_ true; it may be acceptable to disclose the vendor name, but
not the specific version number.

Even still, administrators SHOULD set \fBMEERKAT_VENDOR_VERSION\fR to an empty
string if version privacy is desired, since this behavior may change in the
future.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_VENDOR_VERSION

Overrides the reported version of this DSA, which is displayed in the root DSE
as the
.I vendorVersion
attribute. If this is unset, the
.I vendorVersion
attribute will read "Meerkat DSA, Version X.X.X", where "X.X.X" is the version
number, regardless of the server's locale or language settings. Everything said
in this section is also true for the similar
.I fullVendorVersion
attribute used by OpenDJ.

Revealing that you are using a specific version of Meerkat DSA instance may make
it easier for malicious users to profile your DSA in cyberattack attempts. For
instance, if it is known that there is a new security vulnerability in Meerkat
DSA, malicious users may search for DSAs whose
.I vendorVersion
attribute indicates that the DSA is still susceptible to the security
vulnerability. To disable the
.I vendorName
from displaying the version, set the \fBMEERKAT_VENDOR_VERSION\fR environment
variable to an empty string ("").

The benefit of not disabling this is that, if there are bugs in how Meerkat DSA
(or a given version of it) is implemented, clients can use this version
information for possible workarounds. Minor discrepancies in implementation can
be handled by clients when the vendor name and version can be discovered.

Setting the \fBMEERKAT_VENDOR_NAME\fR to an empty string will also disable the
display of the vendor version, since it is assumed that desire for secrecy of
the vendor version implies a desire for secrecy of the vendor version as well.
The reverse is _not_ true; it may be acceptable to disclose the vendor name, but
not the specific version number.

Even still, administrators _SHOULD_ set \fBMEERKAT_VENDOR_VERSION\fR to an empty
string if version privacy is desired, since this behavior may change in the
future.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_WEB_ADMIN_AUTH_USERNAME

If set, this is the username that the web admin console will expect as part of
HTTP basic authentication.

HTTP Basic Authentication will only be enabled if both the
\fBMEERKAT_WEB_ADMIN_AUTH_USERNAME\fR and
\fBMEERKAT_WEB_ADMIN_AUTH_PASSWORD\fR environment
variables are set.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_WEB_ADMIN_AUTH_PASSWORD

If set, this is the password that the web admin console will expect as part of
HTTP basic authentication.

HTTP Basic Authentication will only be enabled if both the
\fBMEERKAT_WEB_ADMIN_AUTH_USERNAME\fR and
\fBMEERKAT_WEB_ADMIN_AUTH_PASSWORD\fR environment
variables are set.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_WEB_ADMIN_AUTH_REALM

If set, this is the realm that the web admin console will expect as part of
HTTP basic authentication.

This has no effect other than controlling the realm displayed to the end user.
(If it is displayed at all.)

.TP
.B MEERKAT_WEB_ADMIN_PORT

If set, this names a TCP port on which Meerkat DSA listens locally for the
web admin console.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_WEB_ADMIN_USE_TLS

If set to 0, the web admin console will _not_ use HTTPS and use HTTP instead.

If TLS is enabled, the web admin console will use the same TLS configuration
that the directory services are configured to use.

You should only disable TLS on the web admin console if you are using a reverse
proxy that provides TLS.

.TP
.B MEERKAT_XR_UPSERT_CONCURRENCY

The maximum number of cross references that may be upserted into the local DSAIT
concurrently when applying received cross references during distributed
operations. Must be a positive integer. Defaults to 5 if unset or invalid.

.TP
.B NODE_ENV

This is a standard NodeJS-related environment variable. This should be set to
"production" unless you are actually developing Meerkat DSA.

.SH SEE ALSO

The online documentation equivalent of this can be found here:
https://wildboar-software.github.io/directory/docs/env.

The online version is more verbose.
